# RoboticArm

This file describes how to achieve a mechanical anthropomorphic prehensor controlled by means of engines controlled by an Arduino. Today, when most of the activities are mechanized and robotic. That is why this project tries to achieve a system that specifically adapted to ease some inaccessible or very hard-to-reach operations. Also, the system is controlled by a human user, which gives it superiority to automated robots that are programmed to do the same tasks repeatedly and are unable to adapt to different situations. So we have made a robotic arm that has the ability to mimic the movements of a human hand. The hand mimics the human fingers identically, with very small reaction time and can be operated remotely by Bluetooth.
Components required to complete the whole assembly can be divided into four categories: (sensors, wireless transmission, actuated mechanical elements, command-soft part). These four categories are themselves made up of several independent elements or interacting with each other to provide movement to the system. In order to understand the final functionality I will present the specifications and characteristics of each piece I used, explaining their role as a whole.

The main components of the implemented system are:
- Six-Sensor Data Glove (Glove Component): Allows capture of motion data by the human hand, information that will be transferred to an Arduino.
- The ATmega328 Microcontroller (Arduino Plate): allows capturing, analyzing, interpreting, transforming, and transferring data to a second  Arduino that has the role of receiving and interpreting them so that it controls the actuators so that the Handpiece is in a position similar to the user's hand.
- Final handpiece (Hand component): represents the mechanical part of the project and has the role of moving the Arduino controls so that in the final position it resembles the position of the user's hand.

The Hand component is used to reproduce human hand movements in different ways. These movements are identified by different sensors placed on the Glove Component. The hand-held data transmission (information) is carried out wirelessly, remotely, via Bluetooth modules paired with each other. The connection is unidirectional master-slave type and will be made from the Bluetooth module on the glove to the one connected to the robotic arm elements.


The robotic arm
The movement of the robotic hand is accomplished by actuating servomotors placed in the robotic arm that are attached to the fingers of the component. They spin in the range of 0-180 degrees by signal transmission on one of the pins, thus changing the position and orientation of the robotic hand similar to human, both in terms of the degree of flexion of each finger, but also of the orientation horizontal. For the highest accuracy, the finger positions are constantly read by sensors and then mechanically repositioned.
Sensor gloves are devices used to give the user the ability to interact with another environment by moving their fingers or wrists. In the case of the project presented, the glove is used to transmit certain position and movement information to the Hand component. Depending on the technology used, the finger positions can be determined very quickly and with varying precision. Because they are very effective for transmitting to the computer or other sources, finger positions and gestures, data gloves are used in applications in various areas.

The Arduino board on which the ATMega328 microcontroller is located is the main component of the entire system. This makes ordering the items and is easily reprogrammed for later developments.
A controller is an electronic structure that has the role of controlling a process or interacting with the external environment in a programmable, automatic way without the need for human operator intervention.


Design of the Hand Component
General description

In order to retrieve information about the operator's position, a glove with sensors is usually used. There are different types of gloves, such as those found in virtual reality, which give the user the ability to use finger movement in interaction with the virtual environment. In the case presented by me, the data glove is used to convey certain information about the movements perceived by another system. Depending on the technology used, finger positions in space can be determined with varying precision. The purpose of my system is to perceive the movements so quickly and with delays so low that they are not perceived by the human eye.

Glove Component
The Glove Component is a glove with 6 sensors designed to extract information about the user's hand, information to be used to move the robotic hand. This can be said to be a way of interfacing man with a mechanical hand. The system created by me The Glove Component is a simple model for which we used a glove made of a flexible elastic fabric with five bending sensors, a gyroscope and a Bluetooth module (Master). The glove is designed in such a way that the sensors have a perfect position on the fingers and read correctly their movements. The sensors were trapped on each finger of the glove on the outside of the glove, but they were not rigidly fixed, leaving them motionless to move naturally after the human fingers' position changes. The gyroscope was also placed on the back of the glove in an area as propitious as possible so as to pinpoint as accurately as possible all types of rotations executed by the hand on the horizontal.
 
Bending sensors 
Bending sensors are the most important elements on the Glove Component. As a basic functionality, they are very similar to analog resistors. They are composed of carbon resistors coated with a very thin silicon layer. The sensors provide initial resistance when in a right position and when the sensor is bent, it produces a resistance directly proportional to the bending radius.
Through the tests we noticed that for a normal bending sensor, a 0 degree bend represents a 30 kohm resistance and for a bend of about 90 degrees, a 90 kohms resistance is obtained. The more carbon inside the flexible layer, the higher the resistance, which means that when the sensor is bent, the carbon inside the flexible layer produces a resistance directly proportional to the bending radius. It is advisable that the degree of bending does not exceed 90 degrees because they can be damaged due to the thin layers they are formed in. Note that there may be variations in user-user-to-user bending mode, but has similar behavior no matter where flexion occurs. Since the information extracted from the sensors will be used to move servomotors between 0-180 degrees, the resistance values ​​will be mapped within this range. Mapping consists of defining two minimum and maximum intervals. Thus the values ​​near the minimum of the first interval will be equal to the minimum of the second interval, and similarly for the maximum.
At present, there are two types of sensors, identified by their length, namely, the length of 5.5 cm and 12 cm respectively. The sensors I use in this project are Type 1, 5.5 cm. The choice was due to the fact that a human finger has a length closer to 5.5 than 12 cm, and the use of too long sensors would lead to erroneous readings. Five 5.5 cm sensors attached to a glove were used in the work, where each sensor was applied on one finger making the main part of the Glove Component, used to play hand data from the hand human.
The sensors were connected to the glove so that they touch each finger joint to detect any change of resistance when the user's finger bends with the sensor. When the finger is articulated, resistance on the sensor increases and the current passing through the sensor decreases. The current variation passing through the sensor can be measured and analyzed using a microcontroller. In my project, I use the Atmega328 microcontroller on the Arduino pad to collect the data from all 5 sensors and send them to the Hand component.

Gyroscope
The gyroscope and accelerometer function on similar principles based on Coriolis acceleration and gravitational pull. They have elements structured such that a piezoelectric crystal in continuous oscillation is affected by the movements of the entire plate. Once moved, the crystal provides a stream of amplification to the surrounding wall toward which it has turned. The value is interpreted by a microcontroller and attributed to the fact that the object on which the sensor is installed has moved in a certain direction.
The MPU-6050 sensor used in the project contains both an accelerometer and a MEMS (Micro Electro Mechanical Systems) gyros in a single chip. It is able to capture movements produced on all three movement axes and has easy interface with Arduino through the I2C protocol. The sensor has 6 degrees of freedom, which means it returns 6 values, of which 3 from the accelerometer and 3 from the gyroscope.
Thanks to the fact that the MPU-6050 sensor combines the two devices, it provides very accurate information about horizontal hand movement. The cost is low for this chip because there is no need for 2 separate items, and it has the advantage of having a small size, being perfect to sit on the Glove Component. It feeds from the Arduino tag and sends the data taken from the sensor to be processed before being sent to the Hand component.
